Revise modular pipelines docs (#3948)
kedro-org/kedro: docs/source/nodes_and_pipelines/namespaces.md

                name="train_model_node",
            ),
            node(
                func=evaluate_model,
                inputs=["regressor", "X_test", "y_test"],
                outputs=None,
                name="evaluate_model_node",
            ),
        ]
    )  # Creating a base data science pipeline that will be reused with different model training parameters

def create_pipeline(**kwargs) -> Pipeline:
    return pipeline(
        [base_data_science],  # Creating a new data_science pipeline based on base_data_science pipeline
        parameters={"params:model_options": "params:model_options_1"},  # Using a new set of parameters to train model
    )
```

To use a new set of parameters, you should create a second parameters file to ovewrite parameters specified in  `conf/base/parameters.yml`. To overwrite the parameter `model_options`, create a file  `conf/base/parameters_data_science.yml` and add a parameter called `model_options_1`:

```python
#conf/base/parameters.yml
model_options_1:
  test_size: 0.15
  random_state: 3
  features:
    - passenger_capacity
    - crew
    - d_check_complete
    - moon_clearance_complete
    - company_rating
```

> > In Kedro, you cannot run pipelines with the same node names. In this example, both pipelines have nodes with the same names, so it's impossible to execute them together. However, `base_data_science` is not registered and will not be executed with the `kedro run` command. The `data_science` pipeline, on the other hand, will be executed during `kedro run` because it will be autodiscovered by Kedro, as it was created inside the `create_pipeline()` function.

Reviewer: Other than in the explanation there's no actual reference to `data_science` anywhere in the code examples on this page.

> > In Kedro, you cannot run pipelines with the same node names. In this example, both pipelines have nodes with the same names, so it's impossible to execute them together. However, `base_data_science` is not registered and will not be executed with the `kedro run` command. The `data_science` pipeline, on the other hand, will be executed during `kedro run` because it will be autodiscovered by Kedro, as it was created inside the `create_pipeline()` function.

Author: I fixed it by adding the comment `# data_science pipeline creation function` before the `create_pipeline()` function. However, as I understand it, I have to use `create_pipeline()` name to ensure the pipeline will be autodiscovered. Do you have other ideas on how to highlight the `data_science` name inside the code?

Since the node names are unique now, we can run the project with:

```python
kedro run
```

Logs show that `data_science` and `data_science_2` pipelines were executed successfully with different R2 results. Now, we can see how Kedro-viz renders namespaced pipelines in collapsible "super nodes":

```python
kedro viz run
```

After running viz, we can see two equal pipelines: `data_science` and `data_science_2`:

![namespaces uncollapsed](../meta/images/namespaces_uncollapsed.png)

We can collapse all namespaced pipelines (in our case, it's only `data_science_2`) with a special button and see that the `data_science_2` pipeline was collapsed into one super node called `Ds 2`:

![namespaces collapsed](../meta/images/namespaces_collapsed.png)

> > Tip: You can use `kedro run --namespace = namespace_name` to run only the specific namespace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Tip: You can use `kedro run --namespace=namespace_name` to run only the specific namespace
```

# Reuse pipelines with namespaces

## How to reuse your pipelines

> If you want to create a new pipeline that performs similar tasks with different inputs/outputs/parameters as your existing pipeline (e.g., `data_science` pipeline from our [Spaceflights tutorial](../tutorial/add_another_pipeline.md#data-science-pipeline)), you can use the same `pipeline()` creation function as described in [How to structure your pipeline creation](modular_pipelines.md#how-to-structure-your-pipeline-creation). This function allows you to overwrite inputs, outputs, and parameters. Your new pipeline creation code should look like this:

Reviewer 2: >If you want to create a new pipeline that performs similar tasks with different inputs/outputs/parameters as your existing pipeline (e.g., `data_science` pipeline from our [Spaceflights tutorial](../tutorial/add_another_pipeline.md#data-science-pipeline)), you can use the same `pipeline()` creation function as described in [How to structure your pipeline creation](modular_pipelines.md#how-to-structure-your-pipeline-creation). This function allows you to overwrite inputs, outputs, and parameters. Your new pipeline creation code should look like this:

I found this hard to parse.  It's one very long sentence with two links, plus some parenthesis. I would split it and consider whether you need all the links.

```python
def create_new_pipeline(**kwargs) -> Pipeline:
    return pipeline(
    [data_science], # Name of the existing pipeline
    inputs = {"old_input_df_name" : "new_input_df_name"},  # Mapping old input to new input
    outputs = {"old_output_df_name" : "new_output_df_name"},  # Mapping old output to new output
    parameters = {"params: test_size1": "params: test_size2"},  # Updating parameters
    )
```
This means you can easily create multiple pipelines based on the `data_science` pipeline to test different approaches with various input datasets and model training parameters.

> ## What is a Namespace

Reviewer 2: Is there a reason for capitalising namespace?

# Reuse pipelines with namespaces

## How to reuse your pipelines

If you want to create a new pipeline that performs similar tasks with different inputs/outputs/parameters as your existing pipeline (e.g., `data_science`), you can use the same `pipeline()` creation function as described in [How to structure your pipeline creation](modular_pipelines.md#how-to-structure-your-pipeline-creation). This function allows you to overwrite inputs, outputs, and parameters. Your new pipeline creation code should look like this:

```python
def create_new_pipeline(**kwargs) -> Pipeline:
    return pipeline(

>     [data_science], # Name of an existing pipeline

Reviewer 3: Where does `data_science` come from in this example?

Author: I refer to a `data_science` pipeline from the Spaceflights starter tutorial. In this example, it's clearer why a user might want to reuse parts of the pipeline in a business case, compared to an example using medians and means. I've included links to the tutorial.

```python
def create_new_pipeline(**kwargs) -> Pipeline:
    return pipeline(
        [data_science],  # Name of the existing pipeline
        inputs={"old_input_df_name": "new_input_df_name"},  # Mapping old input to new input
        parameters={"params:test_size1": "params:test_size2"},  # Updating parameters
        namespace="alternative_approach",  # Setting the namespace name
    )
```
In this example:
* The `data_science` pipeline is reused and namespaced under `alternative_approach`.
* The inputs and parameters are mapped to new names/values.
* The namespace parameter ensures that all nodes and outputs in this pipeline are prefixed with `alternative_approach`, isolating them from other pipelines.

Namespace methods:
* You can use `kedro run --namespace = namespace_name` to run only the specific namespace
* [Kedro-Viz](https://demo.kedro.org) accelerates development by rendering namespaced pipelines as collapsible 'super nodes'.

## How to share your pipelines

> Pipelines are shareable between Kedro codebases via [micro-packaging](micro_packaging.md), but you must follow a couple of rules to ensure portability:

Reviewer 3: We need to add a warning here clarifying that micro packaging is deprecated and slated for removal.

Also, if anything, shouldn't this section be in `modular_pipelines.py`?

# Reuse pipelines with namespaces

## How to reuse your pipelines

> If you want to create a new pipeline that performs similar tasks with different inputs/outputs/parameters as your `existing_pipeline`, you can use the same `pipeline()` creation function as described in [How to structure your pipeline creation](modular_pipelines.md#how-to-structure-your-pipeline-creation). This function allows you to overwrite inputs, outputs, and parameters. Your new pipeline creation code should look like this:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you want to create a new pipeline that performs similar tasks with different inputs/outputs/parameters as your existing_pipeline, you can use the same `pipeline()` creation function as described in [How to structure your pipeline creation](modular_pipelines.md#how-to-structure-your-pipeline-creation). This function allows you to overwrite inputs, outputs, and parameters. Your new pipeline creation code should look like this:
```

Reviewer 4: Suggest splitting it to multiple lines to simplify representation in GitHub.

```python

> def create_new_pipeline(**kwargs) -> Pipeline:

Reviewer 4: I think this PR overall uses less specific names than the current docs, which at least to me is an impact on docs quality. Compare:

`create_new_pipeline`

to:

```python
final_pipeline = (
    cook_breakfast_pipeline
    + eat_breakfast_pipeline
    + cook_lunch_pipeline
    + eat_lunch_pipeline
)
```

Author: I updated it to` create_pipeline()`. If I understood correctly, the name `create_pipeline()` is important (although it is not specific) because otherwise, the pipeline will not be autodiscovered and executed during `kedro new` (see [Kedro documentation](https://docs.kedro.org/en/stable/nodes_and_pipelines/pipeline_registry.html)). If you see any other examples with less specific names, please let me know and I would be happy to fix them as well.

    return pipeline(

>     [existing_pipeline], # Name of the existing pipeline

Reviewer 4: Why is this`[existing_pipeline]` instead of  `existing_pipeline`? Also the comment is a bit inaccurate: it's not `# Name of the existing pipeline` but rather a `Pipeline` object itself.

Reviewer 4: I think the example would be more realistic if `existing_pipeline` had a simple but realistic job and clear name. E.g. like `cook_pipeline` in old example.

Author: I fixed the comment and removed the brackets, but I believe `existing_pipeline` is a sufficiently descriptive name to define reusability. A more detailed example is provided a bit further down, based on the spaceflights starter.

    inputs = {"old_input_df_name" : "new_input_df_name"},  # Mapping old input to new input
    outputs = {"old_output_df_name" : "new_output_df_name"},  # Mapping old output to new output

>     parameters = {"params: model_options": "params: new_model_options"},  # Updating parameters

Reviewer 4: I think the `old` and `new` dataset names do not reflect what modular pipelines really do.

A mental model while working with modular pipelines and namespaces is not that you're replacing something **old** with something **new**. It is that you're using something **specific** instead of something **abstract**.

Previous example with cooking food I think reflects it better because it shows how `"grilled_veg"` which is an output of `cook_pipeline` is in one case `"breakfast_food"` and in the other it is `"lunch_food"`

Reviewer 4: Also the block inside `pipeline()` should be indented I believe

Author: I fixed the indentation and updated the comments. I believe the idea is now also clearly explained within the example—showing how to create different data science pipelines based on the base_data_science pipeline.

    )
```

This means you can create multiple pipelines based on the `existing_pipeline` pipeline to test different approaches with various input datasets and model training parameters. For example, for the `data_science` pipeline from our [Spaceflights tutorial](../tutorial/add_another_pipeline.md#data-science-pipeline), you can restructure the `src/project_name/pipelines/data_science/pipeline.py` file by separating the `data_science` pipeline creation code into a separate `base_data_science` pipeline object, then reusing it inside the `create_pipeline()` function:

```python
#src/project_name/pipelines/data_science/pipeline.py

from kedro.pipeline import Pipeline, node, pipeline
from .nodes import evaluate_model, split_data, train_model

base_data_science = pipeline(
        [
            node(
                func=split_data,
                inputs=["model_input_table", "params:model_options"],
                outputs=["X_train", "X_test", "y_train", "y_test"],

>                 name="split_data_node",

Reviewer 4: And similarly in other nodes, because in all the places this `name` is used, it is clear that it's a `node`.
```suggestion
                name="split_data",
```

Author: I would prefer to leave this as it is because it's currently how it's written in our starters, and I don't want to confuse users with different naming since our example is based on that starter.

            ),
            node(
                func=train_model,
                inputs=["X_train", "y_train"],
                outputs="regressor",
                name="train_model_node",
            ),
            node(
                func=evaluate_model,
                inputs=["regressor", "X_test", "y_test"],
                outputs=None,
                name="evaluate_model_node",
            ),
        ]
    )  # Creating a base data science pipeline that will be reused with different model training parameters

def create_pipeline(**kwargs) -> Pipeline:
    return pipeline(
        [base_data_science],  # Creating a new data_science pipeline based on base_data_science pipeline
        parameters={"params:model_options": "params:model_options_1"},  # Using a new set of parameters to train model

>     )

Reviewer 4: Why is it not using `namespace`? Isn't this page supposed to be about that?

Author: In my opinion, the point of the first section titled "How to reuse your pipelines" is to show that you can reuse your pipelines without needing namespaces. However, by adding namespaces, you can reuse your pipelines multiple times, with namespaces providing the necessary support. So my point is: reuse is the primary idea, and namespaces are an enhancement.

model_options_1:
  test_size: 0.15
  random_state: 3
  features:
    - passenger_capacity
    - crew
    - d_check_complete
    - moon_clearance_complete
    - company_rating
```

> **Warning**: In Kedro, you cannot run pipelines with the same node names. In this example, both pipelines have nodes with the same names, so it's impossible to execute them together. However, `base_data_science` is not registered and will not be executed with the `kedro run` command. The `data_science` pipeline created inside the `create_pipeline()` function, based on `base_data_science`, will be executed during `kedro run` because it will be autodiscovered by Kedro.

If you want to execute `base_data_science` and `data_science` pipelines together or reuse `base_data_science` a few more times, you need to modify the node names. The easiest way to do this is by using namespaces.

## What is a namespace

A namespace is a way to isolate nodes, inputs, outputs, and parameters inside your pipeline. If you put `namespace="namespace_name"` attribute inside the `pipeline()` creation function, it will add the `namespace_name.` prefix to all nodes, inputs, outputs, and parameters inside your new pipeline.

> Let's extend our previous example and try to reuse the `base_data_science` pipeline one more time by creating another pipeline based on it. First, we should use the `kedro pipeline create` command to create a new blank pipeline named `data_science_2`:

Reviewer 4: Ok this is very very unclear. Why to reuse an existing pipeline that's designed to be modular you're running `kedro pipeline create`? Isn't a more intuitive flow to define this abstract, unregistered pipeline once and then initialize it's actual instances to be registed within the same `project/pipelines/pipeline` folder?

Author: Thank you for that proposal, @yury-fedotov. When I wrote that manual, I also thought about how I can reuse a pipeline created with `kedro pipeline create` command since the pipeline object is created inside the function. Should I create an additional pipeline with the `kedro pipeline create` command to reuse the first one? I believe it's important to provide our users with best practices, and I would be happy to hear more opinions on that. Maybe @astrojuanlu and @merelcht have some insights.

Reviewer: From my point of you it doesn't matter how you create the pipelines, what's important is how you re-use them in the end. It's up to the user if they want the pipelines to be in the same folder or separated out (which is what happens when you do `kedro pipeline create`).

```python
kedro pipeline create data_science_2
```
Then, we need to modify the `src/project_name/pipelines/data_science_2/pipeline.py` file to create a pipeline in a similar way to the example above. We will import `base_data_science` from the code above and use a namespace to isolate our nodes:

```python
#src/project_name/pipelines/data_science_2/pipeline.py
from kedro.pipeline import Pipeline, pipeline
from ..data_science.pipeline import base_data_science  # Import pipeline to create a new one based on it

> def create_pipeline(**kwargs) -> Pipeline:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
def create_pipeline() -> Pipeline:
```

    return pipeline(
        [base_data_science], # Creating a new data_science_2 pipeline based on base_data_science pipeline
        parameters={"params:model_options": "params:model_options_2"}, # Using a new set of parameters to train model
        namespace = "ds_2", # With that namespace, "ds_2." prefix will be added to inputs, outputs, params, and node names

>         inputs={"model_input_table"}, # Inputs remain the same, without namespace prefix

Reviewer 4: This order of arguments doesn't make sense. `namespace` should be either below all `inputs/outputs/parameters` or after. Not in the middle. They are indeed kwargs and order doesn't matter but for readability and user understanding it does matter here I think.

![namespaces uncollapsed](../meta/images/namespaces_uncollapsed.png)

We can collapse all namespaced pipelines (in our case, it's only `data_science_2`) with a special button and see that the `data_science_2` pipeline was collapsed into one super node called `Ds 2`:

![namespaces collapsed](../meta/images/namespaces_collapsed.png)

> Tip: You can use `kedro run --namespace = namespace_name` to run only the specific namespace

### How to namespace all pipelines in a project

If we want to make all pipelines in this example fully namespaced, we should:

Modify the `data_processing` pipeline by adding to the `pipeline()` creation function in `src/project_name/pipelines/data_processing/pipeline.py` with the following code:
```python
        namespace="data_processing",
        inputs={"companies", "shuttles", "reviews"},  # Inputs remain the same, without namespace prefix
        outputs={"model_input_table"},  # Outputs remain the same, without namespace prefix
```
Modify the `data_science` pipeline by adding namespace and inputs in the same way as it was done in `data_science_2` pipeline:

```python
def create_pipeline(**kwargs) -> Pipeline:
    return pipeline(

>         [base_data_science],

Reviewer 4: Why is this a list?
```suggestion
        base_data_science,
```

        parameters={"params:model_options": "params:model_options_1"},
        namespace="ds_1",
        inputs={"model_input_table"},
    )
```

After executing the pipeline with `kedro run`, the visualisation with `kedro viz run` after collapsing will look like this:

![namespaces collapsed all](../meta/images/namespaces_collapsed_all.png)

## Providing pipeline specific dependencies

* A pipeline **might** have external dependencies specified in a local `requirements.txt` file.
* Pipeline specific dependencies are scooped up during the [micro-packaging](micro_packaging.md) process.
* These dependencies need to be manually installed using `pip`:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt

> ```

Reviewer 4: How is this at all related to namespaces?

Author: Fixed, I moved it to `modular_pipelines.md`

## Example: Combining disconnected pipelines

> Sometimes two pipelines must be connected, but do not share any catalog dependencies. In this example, there is a `lunch_pipeline`, which makes us lunch. The 'verbs', `defrost` and `eat`, are Python functions and the inputs/outputs are food at different points of the process (`frozen`, `thawed` and `food`).

Reviewer 4: `thawed` is not present in the example at all

Author: Decided to remove the cooking examples.

* In an ideal world, we would like to use the `cook_pipeline` twice as you would `defrost` and `grill` multiple meals beyond the `veg` currently hard-coded.
* Namespaces allow you to instantiate the same pipeline multiple times and keep operations isolated.
* Like one provides arguments to a class' constructor, you can provide overriding inputs/outputs/parameters to the `pipeline()` wrapper.

```{note}
The set of overriding inputs and outputs must be a subset of the reused pipeline's "free" inputs and outputs, respectively. A free input is an input that isn't generated by a node in the pipeline, while a free output is an output that isn't consumed by a node in the pipeline. {py:meth}`Pipeline.inputs() <kedro.pipeline.Pipeline.inputs>` and {py:meth}`Pipeline.outputs() <kedro.pipeline.Pipeline.outputs>` can be used to list a pipeline's free inputs and outputs, respectively.
```

> 

Reviewer 4: Why do we need both cooking and data science example to demonstrate how namespaces work?

Author: I agree with that. We want to move away from the cooking example and shift to something more practical, based on our spaceflights-pandas starter. I previously kept the cooking example, but let's go ahead and remove it.

from .nodes import evaluate_model, split_data, train_model

base_data_science = pipeline(
        [
            node(
                func=split_data,
                inputs=["model_input_table", "params:model_options"],
                outputs=["X_train", "X_test", "y_train", "y_test"],
                name="split_data_node",
            ),
            node(
                func=train_model,
                inputs=["X_train", "y_train"],
                outputs="regressor",
                name="train_model_node",
            ),
            node(
                func=evaluate_model,
                inputs=["regressor", "X_test", "y_test"],
                outputs=None,
                name="evaluate_model_node",
            ),
        ]
    )  # Creating a base data science pipeline that will be reused with different model training parameters

def create_pipeline(**kwargs) -> Pipeline:
    return pipeline(
        [base_data_science],  # Creating a new data_science pipeline based on base_data_science pipeline
        parameters={"params:model_options": "params:model_options_1"},  # Using a new set of parameters to train model
    )
```

> To use a new set of parameters, we need to previously save them inside `conf/base/parameters.yml` of our kedro project. I copied `model_options` from `conf/base/parameters_data_science.yml` and slightly modified it to try new model training parameters: test size and different features set, and called it `model_options_1`:

Author: In my opinion, the point of the first section titled "How to reuse your pipelines" is to show that you can reuse your pipelines without needing namespaces. However, by adding namespaces, you can reuse your pipelines multiple times, with namespaces providing the necessary support. So my point is: reuse is the primary idea, and namespaces are an enhancement. I propose to leave it as it is.

```python
#conf/base/parameters.yml
model_options_1:
  test_size: 0.15
  random_state: 3
  features:
    - passenger_capacity
    - crew
    - d_check_complete
    - moon_clearance_complete
    - company_rating
```

> > **Warning**: In Kedro, you cannot run pipelines with the same node names. In this example, both pipelines have nodes with the same names, so it's impossible to execute them together. However, `base_data_science` is not registered and will not be executed with the `kedro run` command. The `data_science` pipeline created inside the `create_pipeline()` function, based on `base_data_science`, will be executed during `kedro run` because it will be autodiscovered by Kedro.

Author: I rewrote it slightly, but I think it's important to mention that part because it explains why you actually need namespaces—because you can reuse pipelines without them.

Since the node names are unique now, we can run the project with:

```python
kedro run
```

Logs show that `data_science` and `data_science_2` pipelines were executed successfully with different R2 results. Now, we can see how Kedro-viz renders namespaced pipelines in collapsible "super nodes":

```python
kedro viz run
```

After running viz, we can see two equal pipelines: `data_science` and `data_science_2`:

![namespaces uncollapsed](../meta/images/namespaces_uncollapsed.png)

We can collapse all namespaced pipelines (in our case, it's only `data_science_2`) with a special button and see that the `data_science_2` pipeline was collapsed into one super node called `Ds 2`:

![namespaces collapsed](../meta/images/namespaces_collapsed.png)

> Tip: You can use `kedro run --namespace = namespace_name` to run only the specific namespace

> ### How make all pipelines in this example fully namespaced

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How to namespace all pipelines in a project
```

If we want to make all pipelines in this example fully namespaced, we should:

Modify the `data_processing` pipeline by adding to the `pipeline()` creation function in `src/project_name/pipelines/data_processing/pipeline.py` with the following code:
```python
        namespace="data_processing",
        inputs={"companies", "shuttles", "reviews"},
```

> Modify the `data_science` pipeline by adding namespace and inputs the same way as it was in `data_science_2` pipeline, but the input will be prefixed with `data_processing.`, because we added a namespace for data processing in the previous step:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modify the `data_science` pipeline by adding namespace and inputs in the same way as it was done in `data_science_2` pipeline, but the input will be prefixed with `data_processing.`, because we added a namespace for data processing in the previous step:
```

```python
def create_pipeline(**kwargs) -> Pipeline:
    return pipeline(
        [base_data_science],
        parameters={"params:model_options": "params:model_options_1"},
        namespace="ds_1",
        inputs={"data_processing.model_input_table"},
    )
```

The same input modification should be done for the `base_data_science` pipeline:
```python
inputs=["data_processing.model_input_table", "params:model_options"],
```

And the `data_science_2` pipeline:
```python
inputs={"data_processing.model_input_table"},
```

> After executing the pipeline with `kedro run`, the visualization with `kedro viz run` after collapsing will look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After executing the pipeline with `kedro run`, the visualisation with `kedro viz run` after collapsing will look like this:
```
